Add Istio sidecar enabled tests and refactor code (#14769)
kyma-project/kyma: tests/components/istio/README.md

# Istio component tests

We have chosen to implement component tests with [cucumber/godog](https://github.com/cucumber/godog) library. 
Please feel free to take a look at their repository to learn more about the framework.

## Requirements

In order to run these tests, you need to have:

> - Kubernetes installed and kubeconfig configured to point on this cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kubernetes installed and kubeconfig configured to point to this cluster
```

- Kyma installed with at least Istio component
- Export environment variables, the only required is `KYMA_PROFILE`

> ## Environment variables

Reviewer: Is that section a part of Prerequisites? If possible, try to structure your README according to the [template](https://github.com/kyma-project/template-repository/blob/main/README.md).

> These environment variables will determine how the tests are run in both prow and your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These environment variables determine how the tests are run on both Prow and your local machine:
```

> - `KYMA_PROFILE`: Set this environment variable accordingly to the Kyma profile installed on the Kubernetes cluster. These values are: `evaluation` or `production`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `KYMA_PROFILE` - set this environment variable accordingly to the Kyma profile installed on the Kubernetes cluster. The possible values are `evaluation` or `production`.
```

> - `EXPORT_RESULT`: Set this environment variable to `true` if you want to export test results to JUnit XML, Cucumber JSON and HTML report. Default value: `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `EXPORT_RESULT` - set this environment variable to `true` if you want to export test results to JUnit XML, Cucumber JSON, and HTML report. The default value is `false`.
```

> ## Executing tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Usage
```

> ### Start the test suite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start the test suite:
```

> Having prepared environment variables simply run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: We already mentioned it in Prerequisites.

> `make test`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```make test```
```

> We have also provided a Make target that will create k3d cluster, install Kyma on it and run the tests:

Reviewer: How is this step related to the next ones?

`make test-k3d`

> ## Create k3d cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Provision a k3d cluster on your local machine:
```

To provision k3d cluster on your local machine run:

> `make provision-k3d`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```make provision-k3d```
```

> ## Install Kyma

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

To install Kyma with Istio component on your cluster run:

> `make kyma-istio-deploy`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```make kyma-istio-deploy```
```

# Istio component tests

Istio component tests use the [cucumber/godog](https://github.com/cucumber/godog) library.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes installed and kubeconfig configured to point to this cluster
- Kyma installed with at least Istio component
- Environment variables exported (the only required environment variable is `KYMA_PROFILE`)

### Environment variables

These environment variables determine how the tests are run on both Prow and your local machine:

- `KYMA_PROFILE` - set this environment variable accordingly to the Kyma profile installed on the Kubernetes cluster. The possible values are `evaluation` or `production`.
- `EXPORT_RESULT` - set this environment variable to `true` if you want to export test results to JUnit XML, Cucumber JSON, and HTML report. The default value is `false`.

## Usage

> ### Start the test suite

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Having met all the requirements simply run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start the test suite, run:
```

> ```make test```

Reviewer: Suggestion doesn't work in this case, but could you format this command in such a way?

```
make test
```

To do so, ` ``` ` must be in separate lines.

> #### Prepare cluster on your local machine

Reviewer: Do we need this section at all? Is it in the scope of the `Istio component tests` document? 🤔

> #### Prepare cluster on your local machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> We have also provided a Make target that will create k3d cluster, install Kyma on it and run the tests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't have a cluster, you can run the tests on your local machine. To do so, run:
```

> ```make test-k3d```

Reviewer: Same as above, please correct the formatting to:

```
make test-k3d
```

> The steps are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command creates a k3d cluster on your local machine, installs Kyma on it, and runs the tests.
```

1. Provision a k3d cluster on your local machine:

```make provision-k3d```

2. Install Kyma with the Istio component on your cluster:

```make kyma-istio-deploy```

3. Run the tests:

> ```make test```

Reviewer: Remove
